Pedro.
Look, here she comes.

Bene.
Will your Grace command me any service to the world's end? I will
go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can
devise to send me on; I will fetch you a toothpicker now from the
furthest inch of Asia; bring you the length of Prester John's
foot; fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard; do you any
embassage to the Pygmies--rather than hold three words'
conference with this harpy. You have no employment for me?

Pedro.
None, but to desire your good company.

Bene.
O God, sir, here's a dish I love not! I cannot endure my Lady
Tongue.
[Exit.]

Pedro.
Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick.

Beat.
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and I gave him use for
it--a double heart for his single one. Marry, once before he won
it of me with false dice; therefore your Grace may well say I
have lost it.

Pedro.
You have put him down, lady; you have put him down.

Beat.
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I should prove the
mother of fools. I have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent me
to seek.

Pedro.
Why, how now, Count? Wherefore are you sad?

Claud.
Not sad, my lord.

Pedro.
How then? sick?

Claud.
Neither, my lord.

Beat.
The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well; but
civil count--civil as an orange, and something of that jealous
complexion.

Pedro.
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; though I'll be
sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. Here, Claudio, I have
wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won. I have broke with    her
father, and his good will obtained. Name the day of marriage, and
God give thee joy!

Leon.
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes.  His
Grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it!

Beat.
Speak, Count, 'tis your cue.

Claud.
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy. I were but little happy
if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours.  I
give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.

Beat.
Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with a kiss and
let not him speak neither.

Pedro.
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.

Beat.
Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy side
of care. My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart.

Claud.
And so she doth, cousin.

Beat.
Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the world but I,
and I am sunburnt. I may sit in a corner and cry 'Heigh-ho for a
husband!'

Pedro.
Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.

Beat.
I would rather have one of your father's getting. Hath your Grace
ne'er a brother like you? Your father got excellent husbands, if
a maid could come by them.

Pedro.
Will you have me, lady?

Beat.
No, my lord, unless I might have another for working days: your
Grace is too costly to wear every day. But I beseech your Grace
pardon me. I was born to speak all mirth and no matter.

Pedro.
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes you,
for out o' question you were born in a merry hour.

Beat.
No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was a star
danc'd, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy!

Leon.
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?

Beat.
I cry you mercy, uncle, By your Grace's pardon.
            [Exit.]

Pedro.
By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.

Leon.
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord.  She is
never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; for I have
heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt of
unhappiness and wak'd herself with laughing.

Pedro.
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.

Leon.
O, by no means! She mocks all her wooers out of suit.

Pedro.
She were an excellent wife for Benedick.

Leon.
O Lord, my lord! if they were but a week married, they would talk
themselves mad.

Pedro.
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?

Claud.
To-morrow, my lord. Time goes on crutches till love have all his
rites.

Leon.
Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just sevennight;
and a time too brief too, to have all things answer my mind.

Pedro.
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing; but I warrant
thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.  I will in the
interim undertake one of Hercules' labours,
which is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a
mountain of affection th' one with th' other. I would fain have
it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it if you three will
but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.

Leon.
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights' watchings.

Claud.
And I, my lord.

Pedro.
And you too, gentle Hero?

Hero.
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a good
husband.

Pedro.
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know.  Thus
far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain, of approved
valour, and confirm'd honesty. I will teach you how to humour
your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I,
[to Leonato and Claudio] with your two helps, will so practise on
Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy
stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,
Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are
the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.